---
layout: post 
title: Week Five 
category: weekly log
---

## Day 2 (7/16)
  + Busy day today. Stayed very late because simulations were taking a while and I wanted to
  have everything prepped for my meeting tomorrow.
  + Marco pointed me towards the tool used for drawing schematic block diagrams. I figure I'm
  going to need these circuits for my eventual poster and paper, so it wasn't lost time I spent
  painfully drawing these circuits, but it was very tedious. I did draw all of rd53 and rd73, 
  which is good because now I can use these diagrams for when I show my results tomorrow at the
  meeting.
  + I added the code to remove duplicate implications, so now it does a check for implications
  that share an implicand and chooses the one with the higher probability of activation. I now
  see that I'll have to do this on a larger scale with my coverage code also, but it was pretty
  easy so that's good.
  + I also finished the coverage code! There's now a parameter that controls how many nodes 
  we want reinforced, and if, after the outputs are initially covered, there is area left to
  be reinforced, it goes through and does a proportional insertion of more implications to
  high-fault nodes in each of the output. It's still slightly twitchy: sometimes two outputs
  have a shared high-fault node and an implication is output twice, and gates too close to
  the input just mess up fastscan, which is fine, but not nice programming. Also,
  I noticed that the script can sometimes miss an implication - I think I know where that's
  happening, but not why. Will need to investigate further.

## Day 1 (7/15)
  + Last week right before I left I discovered that fastscan was choking on the pattern files
  for fault simulation. That was like a big hairy mess I didn't want to look at, so I tabled
  it for this week, and today I got started. I discovered that the pattern files being
  generated for testing had some syntax errors and were weirdly missing some lines. So first
  I dug around until I found where the lines were supposed to be written. Then I tested it
  again on rd53 to see if this was a circuit-specific problem or if some code accidentally
  was removed. It turned out that the script for parsing pattern files was very hard-coded
  and could not cope with the larger circuit pattern files. I made the script more flexible,
  and then it generated faults for rd73! Very exciting.
  + My next task was to generate the spice files for testing. Marco told me I needed a grey
  code for the input values, and since the rd73 circuit has 7 inputs, I needed a 7-bit grey code.
  Grey codes are a little confusing and scale in a really overwhelming way, so I spent a little 
  while writing a script that generates the grey code, so I can add that to the automation also.
  + Then I realized that I'd have to manually remove the duplicate implications (not really
  duplicates, but they both cover the same gate) so I set to work automating that. I figure
  holding up my progress a little now is better than doing it on my own a few times and then having
  to automate it anyway. For some reason fastscan is running _very_ slowly and it's having
  a negative effect on my productivity, but Marco and I troubleshot it for a while and couldn't
  figure out the source. Until then I'll just multitask a bit more with a few different problems.
