---
layout: post 
title: Week One 
category: weekly log
---

## Week One Accomplishments:
 + Got access to most of the machines and software I need
 + Created my first noise-immune circuit netlists in SPICE (untested)
 + Familiarized myself with scripts for fault analysis, implication finding, and
 circuit synthesis.

## Next Week TODOs:
 + Get fastscan sims working (and hopefully SPICE sims on Oscar)
 + Run fault analysis and thermal noise simulation on newly-latched rd53 circuit
 + Fix up paths in code base so all scripts run properly (potentially a 2-week TODO)
 + Improve code documentation (a many-week TODO)
 
## Day 1
 + Since today was the first day, we spent most of it getting set up with keys
 and permissions and logins and such. Abbie (the other DREU student here at
 Brown this summer, and my housemate!) and I picked our workstations in the lab
 and we met most of Dr. Bahar's lab group. 
 + Dr. Bahar got me started with a set of papers to go over, including the
 thesis her last undergraduate student had written on the work I'll be
 starting in. My project will be to develop an automatic synthesis tool for 
 a noise-immune circuit design technique the group has developed, and this
 thesis is the most current literature on progress in developing synthesis tools. 
 I'll be using some Cadence tools and a proprietary version of SPICE for 
 simulations and testing, and my custom tool will be written in Python and C.
 
## Day 2
 + Today I met with Marco, the graduate student I'll be working with, to clear
 up confusions and issues with the literature I've been reviewing. He also 
 gave me some more background papers to go over, because I'm still a little 
 shaky on the idea of implications and the terminology used (it's too easy to 
 mix up "implicant" and "implicand"), which is useful.
 + Marco also set me up with the SVN repo, which is going to be an adventure
  because I am very used to git conventions and SVN is just different enough
  to make everything I do confusing. I now have a nice robust code base to go
  over, which is also exciting.
 + Also, Marco gave me my first task: simulate the circuits in SPICE to make
 sure everything is set up correctly, make a reinforced Schmitt-trigger latch
 in SPICE so I am familiar with how to use the SPICE libraries and work with 
 netlists (something new for me!) and then add it to one of the already-made
 noise-injected circuit simulations.
 
## Day 3
 + Well, today I learned that the Windows machine at my desk can't really
 handle the compute-heavy SPICE simulations I need to run, and that the version
 of SPICE I use on my computer is different than the one used here, and that I'll
 need to wait until I get a Brown ID before I can use the lab server, Oscar, for
 simulations.
 + Instead, I looked around the code base and made sure everything worked. It 
 didn't, because I was missing a bunch of files, but there was still a lot to
 dig through in what I did have. 
 + I spent most of today familiarizing myself with SPICE and Verilog netlists, 
 the various scripts I have for finding implications and making chains, and the 
 current (fragmented) workflow used for synthesizing circuits. After I did that,
 it was easy to make a simple latch in SPICE using the normal gates in the
 noise-immune library. Even that circuit didn't run on my Windows machine, so 
 I officially wrote that off as a lost cause. At least now I have a few circuits
 to test once I get access to OSCAR (the latch itself and the rd53 with the 
 latch I designed at the end of it). 
 
## Day 4
 + Today I dug through the code base I had really carefully, and found a lot of
 missing files and messed up paths in the version of the code base I had. Marco
 had mentioned that things might be messed up because they hadn't used it
 directly from the svn, so I just poured through all the code (again) and made a list
 of all the problems I found. This was also useful because I outlined the process 
 of synthesizing the noise-immune circuits from the background readings and mapped 
 the functions that have been written to steps in the workflow, and this helped 
 me find gaps in the current setup. My python is a little
 rusty, too, so I'm glad I took the time to step through what all the scripts did
 before jumping into any work anyway. 
 + I also found out I needed to load up a newer version of Python and install it
 in my user home directory, and compiling that took more than a little while (it still
 didn't pass all the make tests, but I think that has something to with the
 LEMS network and less to do with me). Marco and I have a meeting scheduled for tomorrow
 so I will probably sort that and everything else out then. 
  + Dr. Bahar checked up on the status of our ID's and hopefully it should be soon!
  I'm eager to get started doing noise simulations, but I doubt I'll be able to
  until next week.

## Day 5
 + Today I met with Marco in the morning, and he gave me the rest of the files 
 I will probably need for running any type of test or program. It turns out that
 a significant chunk of the code was missing, like so much that I am surprised I
 didn't realize that I had like 1/5 of the functionality I was looking for. But 
 now I have everything so that is good. 
 + Marco said one thing that nobody had done yet in the time this code has been
  actively developed on is decent documentation? Since I'm pouring over this code
  anyway, it makes sense that I take that on also. I only got the chance to go 
  over the generate-site-logic scripts today, and I cleaned up some of the 
  hard-coded path names and wrong directory accesses there. I discovered I 
  don't have access to fastscan? So I'll need to fix that up next week.
 
 
